# Reference Conventions

## Appropriate Use Case

- References are created for USGCRP assessments.  
- They are converted from EndNote references handled by external users (usually TSU).  
- We will support other entitiy's reports in GCIS having references if they provide properly formatted EndNotes.
- References may or may not be evergreen, depending on the base type of the cited publication.  
e.g. A published Article or Report is probably evergreen, but a website definitely isn't.  

**TODO**: Discuss more with TSU to coordinate non-evergreen reference types, and how to make sure they get distinct references per report.

## Field Conventions

| Field | Description |
|-------|------------- | 
|**identifier**|Must be a UUID.  Generated by GCIS, but assigned by the entity controlling the EndNote file before import.|
|**child_publication_id**|After the reference's child publication has been found/created, this should link to its Publication ID.  |
|**attrs**|A hash capture of the EndNote fields, as mapped by the TSU EndNote conventions, with subfields based on the Reference Type.attrs should not be edited after the initial release except to correct errors, as needed. They are meant to be correct as of the date of publication of the parent publication.|

## Provenance Conventions

None

## Relationship Conventions

**Publication**

- All references should have a parent publication, or they are considered Orphans without a purpose.
- Reference child publications should be filled in as time allows with a goal of 100%.  
- Many references may point to the same child publication, but only for non-evergreen publications or other exceptions as determined. Evergreen publications should only have one reference for which they are the child publication.  
- Child publication types of Article, Report, and Book can be done automatically. The rest are handled manually.  

**Contributor**

- Deprecated.  
- We will not connect References to Contributors going forward, nor attempt to backfill in the connection.
